WHAT IS MAVEN?

Maven is a popular open-source build tool developed by the Apache Group to build, 
publish, and deploy several projects at once for better project management.
The tool provides allows developers to build and document the lifecycle framework.
 It is used for projects build, dependency and documentation.
Maven project structure and contents are declared in an xml file, pom.xml,
 referred as Project Object Model (POM), which is the fundamental unit of the entire Maven system.
 
USAGE OF MAVEN:

Maven’s purpose is to provide developers with:

A comprehensive, maintainable, reusable, and simple model for projects.

A set of tools and plug-ins that can interact with the declarative model.

Simple project setup that follows best practices.

Consistent usage across all projects.

Dependency management including automatic updating.

A large and growing repository of libraries.

Extensible, with the ability to easily write plugins in Java or scripting languages.

Instant access to new features with little or no extra configuration.




HOW TO CREATE MAVEN PROJECT?

for standalone application we have to provide artifactId maven-archetype-quickstart.

for webapplication application we have to provide artifactId maven-archetype-webapp.




COMMANDS IN MAVEN AND IT'S USAGE:


Maven Command--------------------------------Description
mvn --version	--------------------Prints out the version of Maven you are running.
mvn clean------------Clears the target directory into which Maven normally builds your project.
mvn package-------Builds the project and packages the resulting JAR file into the target directory.
mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip=true---------------Builds the project and packages the resulting JAR file into the target directory - without running the unit tests during the build.
mvn clean package----------------------Clears the target directory and Builds the project and packages the resulting JAR file into the target directory.
mvn clean package -Dmaven.test.skip=true-----------------Clears the target directory and builds the project and packages the resulting JAR file into the target directory - without running the unit tests during the build.
mvn verify-------------Runs all integration tests found in the project.
mvn clean verify----------Cleans the target directory, and runs all integration tests found in the project.
mvn install---------------------Builds the project described by your Maven POM file and installs the resulting artifact (JAR) into your local Maven repository
mvn install -Dmaven.test.skip=true----------------Builds the project described by your Maven POM file without running unit tests, and installs the resulting artifact (JAR) into your local Maven repository
mvn clean install------------------Clears the target directory and builds the project described by your Maven POM file and installs the resulting artifact (JAR) into your local Maven repository
mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.skip=true------------Clears the target directory and builds the project described by your Maven POM file without running unit tests, and installs the resulting artifact (JAR) into your local Maven repository
mvn dependency:copy-dependencies--------------Copies dependencies from remote Maven repositories to your local Maven repository.
mvn clean dependency:copy-dependencies--------------Cleans project and copies dependencies from remote Maven repositories to your local Maven repository.
mvn clean dependency:copy-dependencies package------------Cleans project, copies dependencies from remote Maven repositories to your local Maven repository and packages your project.
mvn dependency:tree--------------------Prints out the dependency tree for your project - based on the dependencies configured in the pom.xml file.
mvn dependency:tree -Dverbose----------Prints out the dependency tree for your project - based on the dependencies configured in the pom.xml file. Includes repeated, transitive dependencies.
mvn dependency:tree -Dincludes=com.fasterxml.jackson.core-----------Prints out the dependencies from your project which depend on the com.fasterxml.jackson.core artifact.
mvn dependency:tree -Dverbose -Dincludes=com.fasterxml.jackson.core-----------Prints out the dependencies from your project which depend on the com.fasterxml.jackson.core artifact. Includes repeated, transitive dependencies.
mvn dependency:build-classpath---------Prints out the classpath needed to run your project (application) based on the dependencies configured in the pom.xml file.


MAVEN LIFECYCLE:



A Build Lifecycle is a well-defined sequence of phases, which define the order in which 
the goals are to be executed. Here phase represents a stage in life cycle. As an example, 
a typical Maven Build Lifecycle consists of the following sequence of phases.




-----Phase	            ------Handles	              ---------------Description
prepare-resources	resource copying	      Resource copying can be customized in this phase.
validate	        Validating the information    Validates if the project is correct and if all necessary information is available.
compile	                compilation	              Source code compilation is done in this phase.
Test	                Testing	                      Tests the compiled source code suitable for testing framework.
package          	packaging	              This phase creates the JAR/WAR package as mentioned in the packaging in POM.xml.
install	                installation	              This phase installs the package in local/remote maven repository.
Deploy	                Deploying	              Copies the final package to the remote repository.

